Mr. Pham Van Long asks: "I have a
question that I hope you can answer for me.
Due to what cause and effect do my
grandfather and father always disagree and
argue, creating much animosity and making it difficult for them
to face each other? Although I
also participate, if one person agrees, the
other becomes angry and unhappy.
I hope you can help me and tell me
how to bring harmony, joy, and peace to my family. I am grateful for
your kindness and guidance."
Dear friends, the Buddha spoke
of the eight
sufferings, one of which is the
suffering of hatred and resentment. This means two people who have a grudge
against each other, a deep-seated animosity, come together to
cause each other suffering.
The eight sufferings that the
Buddha taught are called the eight winds. These eight winds
burn people and cause
great suffering. One of these sufferings
is the direct manifestation of hatred and resentment.
When two people have
such a grudge against each other, when will it ever
end? First, the hatred must end. That is,
the resentment must end. It only goes so far.
For example, karma from a previous life.  These two people
caused each other trouble, so in this life, when they meet again, they'll
argue 500 times, and that's exactly
500 times. Then, the next day, they'll see a
complete change, and for some unknown reason, they'll suddenly stop
hating each other and start loving each other.
That's called ending karma, ending the karmic debt. Do
we hope for that? We
certainly hope for it. A sudden change means
they've ended their karma with each other. There's
another case: one of them achieves
enlightenment. When they're enlightened, they'll let go, meaning
they understand karma, just like you guys who
study Buddhism. You
understand karma and you know that if
someone has resentment towards you, it means you have
bad karma
towards them. You actively sow good karma towards
them to transform it. That
's the second reason: enlightenment. The third is
meeting a
true practitioner. I've told you a
story many times before.
I'll repeat it a little: there was a
couple, and the husband was always
drinking and partying. The wife had to...  Working
tirelessly from dawn till
dusk, this Buddhist story tells of a husband who, after
drinking heavily, would come home and
beat his wife. Yet, the wife still loved
him deeply, even after being beaten.
You see, there are people whose wives
are constantly beaten, but they still say they can't bear to
leave their children. That's how they still harbor resentment towards
each other. Then, one day, they met a Zen
master who was
begging for alms. The wife
offered him some
food and a begging bowl. She then
asked the Zen master, "My
husband is like this, how can I
make it stop?" The Zen master then
recounted a past life story: the
woman had a donkey, and
she forced it to work extremely
hard, beating it
constantly, giving it little food, and making it work excessively. The
donkey swore that if it ever met the man
again, it would beat him to death in revenge. It was so painful,
you see,
even the animals cried.  It was almost killed, it was
pregnant, and yet the
owner who brought it out to kill it knelt down.
You can see it on social media,
it knelt down on both knees and
two tears flowed out. So the
animal also understood, you know. It's just that
we don't understand its language.
We think it just doesn't know,
it doesn't know everything. It's suffering so much, it's so angry. For example,
she said, "For example, if
you're bitten by a dog, you feel angry at
it, but it doesn't understand that you're angry at it,
right? But you still feel
angry. It's the same with an animal. You
hit it, and it feels angry at you, but you
don't understand that it's angry at you."
She returned to the story, and then
the Zen master said,
[music] "When
your husband comes home, take
this broom and give it to him
to hit him. Then you will get rid of your
karma." Then the husband, drunk and staggering
from the gate,
called out to his wife, "Just to give her a beating, that's all."
So the wife...  Ton grabbed a broom and
ran out, handing it to her husband, "
Hit me!"
The husband then whipped her mercilessly. After whipping her, she came to her senses and said, "Oh, why do you always hit me?" Then the wife
told the whole story, and the husband was filled with remorse. "
So what is this? This
is because she gave him a thousand more
lashes. But because the broom
has many
small bristles, you understand? One whip can
repay so many
lashes. So, all the
resentment is gone, and the two of them
become happy again.
That's also because of the merit from the offerings
and alms bowl given to that Zen master,
which is why they learned about this, and the
karmic connection led to this. So now, in
this family, perhaps your father and your grandfather
had some kind of karmic debt from a
past life, so even now, despite being father and
son, there's still a deep-seated
animosity between them.  This person says something that
annoys the other, that person says something that
annoys the first, and sometimes just seeing
each other makes you uncomfortable. Have you ever felt uncomfortable
seeing someone?
They haven't done anything wrong. Just seeing them makes you
uncomfortable. It's like, "Seeing you makes me annoyed." What's so special about it? It's because of
your own mind that you feel uncomfortable,
and that discomfort stems from karma. For example,
if you were unkind to someone in a previous life, they will be
unkind to you in this life. But the law of cause and
effect is strange, you know. For example, if two
people conspired to do evil and
harm others in a previous life, they are born
into the same family, and in this life they are
not as harmonious as before. Instead, they
constantly argue and
fight. If two people were
very much in agreement and agreed to do
evil in a previous life, then in this life they are not
the same—they are in agreement and agree to do
evil again. That's how strange karma is, you know. If
you do evil things,
in the next life you don't have to
continue doing evil, but you still have to pay the consequences.
The person who did evil
will now treat others the same way they treated each other, the same kind of evil they did to
each other. So let's
apply both of these scenarios to your father.
Now, I'll tell you
this, but you must be enlightened,
otherwise, if you're not enlightened,
you'll create more karma. Now you don't
know what kind of karma your father and your grandfather have
with each other, but in the
Buddhist scriptures about
enemies, the Buddha taught that enemies
don't want their enemies to be happy.
So, one day when
you see your grandfather and your father
talking, you have to carefully observe
who is more resentful, who is less resentful. If one is more resentful and the
other less angry, then you
should say to the one who is more angry,
for example, "You're so angry, Grandpa,
just leave it, I'll take a stick and
hit him for you."
Then, pretend to lightly hit him with the stick. See? See? Are
you happy now?
When a vengeful person
sees they are being defended, they
will calm down, and the karmic consequences will
shift a little. That is, they feel
satisfied; they are happy to see their opponent being
attacked, or they are happy to see
someone defending them instead of their opponent.
But remember, there must be two
people present, both there.
Never let one person do that and
then later tell your father, "I said
that, I waited a little while to make you happy,
okay?" That requires tact; it
also helps your father and grandfather change their
karma. That's one way. The
second way, according to spiritual principles, is that you
should practice and dedicate the merits to the vengeful person
between your father and grandfather so they can attain liberation, following
the spirit of Buddhism. And also,
dedicate some of the merits to your ancestors to increase your
filial piety. Then,
dedicate that merit to your father and grandfather. For example, if you
practice for a day,
whatever merits and blessings
you gain, you should dedicate them to the Three Jewels.
Whatever merits and
blessings you achieve, dedicate them to your
ancestors.  My family also practices filial piety,
dedicating this filial piety
to my father so that he can be filial to my
grandfather. Then I dedicate this to the family, the
relationship between my father and grandfather, with the hope
that they will get along well and
love each other.
That filial heart will generate
a lot of blessings, my friends.
That's how we practice to transform the
karma of conflict between father and grandfather. We
practice to transform the karma of
conflict between father and grandfather, so
let's apply both methods. [
Applause]
[Music]